# fiber_positioner
CODE PERTAINING TO MY WORK ON R&D FOR A "TILTING SPINE" SPECTROGRAPH FIBER POSITIONER

some essential codes were put together by Dr. Tom Diehl and Dr. Alex Drlica-Wagner, including codes to take a picture on the camera connected to the Raspberry Pi, identify the pixel coordinates of the fiber tip in the picture, communicate with the Keysight EDU33212A waveform generator, and define a circle in pixel coordinates corresponding to the fiber positioner's range of motion.

since starting work on this project, I have built a series of GUIs using Tkinter to combine these codes, and incorporate my own codes, into an integrated control system for the experimental apparatus

the directory GUI_codes contains the aforementioned code. descriptions of the GUIs are below. the directory data_and_plotting_code contains example data from the tests run using the GUIs, and the code I use to make plots of this data that I use in my analysis, and show in meetings and presentations, including a jupyter notebook with these examples plotted.

GUIs:

runFinianGUI.py [single triggers + large automated consistency test]:
- includes control panels for taking a picture, locating the fiber tip, and defining the range of motion
- controls for an individual trigger of the waveform generator with choices of axis (x / y), direction (+ / -), input voltage, and number of waveform cycles ("steps"). 
- in the bottom right of the GUI are controls to run a large automated test of the positioner, with choices of voltage step, maximum voltage, number of trials per voltage-direction, number of cycles ("steps") for each trial, and the date (used in image and file naming). When this test is executed, the first channel will run a complete test before the other channel is triggered. A positive motion will be triggered on the first channel at the starting voltage (hard-coded at 1V) with the input number of steps, followed by a negative trigger of the same channel with the same voltage and number of steps. This should move the fiber back to the starting location, and this positive-negative sequence will be executed the input "trials" number of times. I generally use 5, giving 10 data points for each voltage on the channel in question, 5 positive and 5 negative. Once this is finished, the process will be repeated at a higher voltage, with the increment according to the input voltage step. Once the input maximum voltage is reached, the entire test will repeat on the other channel of the waveform generator, starting from the minimum voltage again

runFinianGUI3.py [calibration + pixel-coordinate seeking algorithm]
- includes control panels for taking a picture, locating the fiber tip, and defining the range of motion
- controls to run a calibration of the system consisting of a test of 5 successive positive and negative triggers of each channel of the waveform generator, at the voltages each channel uses in the location-seeking function (go_there). the resulting file is named cal_data_[date].csv, where [date] is the text input labeled "Date:" in the GUI, a string of digits with no slashes. the calibration determines the angle relative to the pixel coordinates at which each channel of the waveform generator is moving the fiber, as well as the displacement in pixel coordinates per waveform cycle at the voltage being used by each channel. 
- this information is used in the go_there function to calculate the combination of CH1 and CH2 inputs to the waveform generator required to move the fiber to the pixel coordinates input using the text boxes labeled 'X_pix:' and 'Y_pix:'. the maximum number of triggers of each channel allowed is set using a text input to the box labeled 'Max_iter:', otherwise the function will stop when the fiber tip is located within the threshold for displacement in pixel coordinates set within the function, currently at 5 pixels. A record of each location is output as go_there_data_[date].csv.

runFinianGUI4.py [calibration + automated test of pixel-coordinate seeking algorithm]
- completely identical to runFinianGUI3, except this is designed to run a large test of the location-seeking algorithm, and contains the controls to do that rather than the controls to input an individual location that are present in runFinianGUI3. in the bottom-right panel, the X_pix and Y_pix inputs have been replaced with a single N_coords input. This number of random locations will be generated within the range of motion, and the positioner will attempt to reach all of them in order, with Max_iter iterations allowed for each location (as in runFinianGUI3)
